V1 : 

This work deals with the combination of two approaches in the context of PDE solving, the classical finite element approach and more recent neural network approaches. In recent years, Physically Informed Neural Networks have become particularly interesting for solving this type of problem, due to their ability to rapidly solve problems that can be high-dimensional. As this work focuses on the real-time creation of digital twins of organs (such as the liver), the speed of this type of method is of great interest. However, their lack of precision is a major problem in this scientific context, hence the interest in combining them with more classical finite element methods, on which error estimators are already known. This second method will enable to correct and certify the prediction of neural networks in order to obtain a fast and accurate solution. The complete pipeline proposed here then consists of modifying the classical approximation spaces in finite element methods by taking the information of a prior, chosen here as the prediction of a PINNs.

This work is part of a preliminary approach, considering parametric problems and complex geometries with the aim of moving towards medical simulations. The current approach is split into 2 separate problems. The first is to develop an approach whose aim is to consider complex geometries in PINNs. This approach should enable us to obtain a prediction of PINNs that is satisfying enough to provide information in our approximation spaces. The second problem consists in correcting PINNs predictions on currently simple geometries.

V2 : 

The broad goal of this work is the real-time creation of digital twins of organs (such as the liver). To this end, we present a prelimiary study combining two approaches in the context of PDE solving: the classical finite element method (FEM) and more recent techniques based on neural networks.Indeed, in recent years, Physics-Informed Neural Networks (PINNs) have become particularly interesting for quickly solving such problems, especially in large dimensions. However, their lack of precision is a major drawback in this context, hence the interest in combining them with FEM, on which error estimators are already known. This combination will make it possible to correct and certify the prediction of neural networks in order to obtain a fast and accurate solution. The complete pipeline proposed here then consists of modifying the classical approximation spaces in FEM by taking the information of a prior, chosen here as the prediction of a PINNs.This preliminary work considers parametric problems and complex geometries, with the aim of moving towards medical simulations, and it is split into two separate problems. First, we develop a methodology to consider complex geometries in PINNs. It should enable us to obtain a prediction of PINNs that is satisfying enough to provide information in our approximation spaces.Second, we correct the predictions of PINNs on currently simple geometries.
